# Mythic Overview

## Gods and Devils

### Sol - Birth

Sol is known as the queen of kings and 'The Goddess' or simply 'The
Light'. She is the only god worshiped by *The Church*. Her followers
provide healing and care for the sick, performs all rites and religious
rituals. She prescribes kindness, forgiveness and family.

- Knowledge Check
  - 5 *The Church* is Technically *The Church of Sol*
  - 7 Sol is the goddess of hope, joy and all things Beautiful
  - 10 The symbol of Sol is the vertical block
  - 12 Sol didn't herself write *The Prayers*
  - 14 Priests and Priestesses of Sol aren't technically supposed to drink wine, smoke tobacco, handle coin after the age of 26
  - 16 Sol is the wife of the mad god Mir
  - 18 Churches that can accommodate hungry or homeless, must do so
  - 20 *The Church* is actually very corrupt, especially at the top
  - 22 The vertical block encapsulated in a circle is actually a symbolic marriage between Sol and *Mir*

### Mir - Life

Mir is the mad god of life. Worshiped by forest dwellers and druids.
Celebration, Emotion, Poetry and Art, Plants and Animals are all in the
Domain of Mir

- Knowledge Check
  - 5 Mir stories are for children
  - 7 Mir is worshiped by Witches and Druids
  - 10 The symbol of Mir is a circlet
  - 12 Worshipers of Mir don't have a holy book but instead have their prayers inscribed on stone and iron-wood
  - 14 Mir taught man about fire and cooking, crops and seed, carpentry and stonework, and befriended animals for man
  - 16 Mir has two wives, Sol and her sister
  - 18 Mir lost his mind and man found it
  - 20 Worshipers of Mir can speak the language of all animals
  - 22 Every winter solstice, a huge ritual is performed in a temple at the heart of the *Grand Forest* to remind Mir to change the seasons, then again on the summer solstice to thank him

### Kad - Death

Kad is the god of death, the underworld and all things evil. She is
totally unknown by most in the *Kingdom* and to many who **do** know,
thought to be a myth.

- Knowledge Check
  - 5 Kad is a curse word
  - 7 Witches and Warlocks worship a third, secret devil, Kad, who rules over hell
  - 10 Kad is the sister of Sol
  - 12 The Church destroys any record of Kad when they find it in creation
  - 14 Followers of Kad bear a mark somewhere on their body
  - 15 The funeral rites performed by the Church are actually based on an old Kad ritual
  - 16 Kad is also married to Mir
  - 18 The symbol of Kad is the horizontal bar
  - 20 Kad takes the form of a darkly fascinating witch harlot
  - 22 Real and regular worship of Kad prevents natural death

## Lands and Seas

### Grand Forest

The Grand Forest, often called Mirwood, is the largest, oldest and most
dense forest in the kingdom. It is home to creatures magical and
mundane.

### The Kingdom

Everything on the map is under the rule of the King or Queen

### Druuthenholm Mountains

The historical homelands of the Dwarfs

## Cities and Towns

### Chendrin Hall

### Castle Heron

The **3rd** largest city in the *The Kingdom*, ruled over by the most
powerful noble house other than the royal family themselves; *House
Heron*.

### Burn Shire

Formerly a Beautiful farming community looked after by a noble lord.
When the lord's daughter was selected by *Raz-Modian*, he decided to
gather his knights and try to slay the dragon instead of paying tribute.
After Raz-Modian killed him and his men, he burned the village to
cinders and it never fully recovered. It is now called burn shire and is
known for it's very **spicy dried green peppers**.

- Spicy Dried Green Peppers
  - 5gp
  - Consuming a few will ignite a day of hot sweat and fever after which the victim will be cured of any common sicknesses and infections.

### Blackstone

Blackstone is the capital of the kingdom, it is the largest city and
boasts the oldest history and most attractions. It is oddly named, as no
part of the city is made from anything that could be considered black
stone.

- The Royal Castle
- Jingwei Basilica
  - Jingwei Basilica is a massive and Beautiful church of *Sol*. It has over a hundred chambers, no including *Catacombs* that are on the rear grounds.
  - The Catacombs are a labyrinth of tombs and graves

### Bondwafer

Bondwafer is the largest and only Halfling town in *The Kingdom*. It has
a population of some odd 10,000 hobbits dispersed over a large region.
Most halflings live amongst the other races and it is often said that
there are more halflings in *Blackstone* than are in Bondwafer.

- Goodly Grue is an old and crazy **Gnome** who lives in a large patch of woods near Bondwafer. He is one of the only creatures who believes himself to be a gnome. He also has no real idea where the other gnomes live. He is a tinkerer, inventor and alchemist who is currently most interested in *The yellow mold* that grows near his cottage and in various other places. He is an excellent gardener and potion brewer.

## Lords and Ladies

### Royal Family

The current royal family is *The Laplass Family*.

### The Queen

The queen is considered by most to be cold and condescending. Taking
little interest in her individual citizens and focusing more on the
power plays of the elite. She is known for preferring simple but often
radical solutions to petty problems like starvation and conflicts of
inheritance. In recent memory of the peasantry; she sent a legion of the
guard to the farmlands of

### Count Putnam Laplass

### Princess Eubuli

### High Priest Anslem

### Lady Jarvesetee

The last and only heir to the Jarvesetee house. Jarvesetee lands are
considered to be the finest in the land, with a utilitarian and
productive people. A famous phrase from all over the kingdom is a
"Jarvesetee Beggar" which means, a person who is sad about something
small even though their life is generally alright.

## Factions and Guilds

### The Church

The only sanctioned religion in *The Kingdom*. Every city, town and even
most hamlets have at least a shrine dedicated to *Sol* and under the
direct control and curating of **The Church**. The church welcomes all
to it's services but within it's own branches, has a rigid structure and
hierarchy. Towns that are graced with a presence of the church have at
least a priest, priestess or friar. Some cities might have hundreds of
clergy. **The Church** doesn't directly involve itself in the day to day
political functions of *The Kingdom* but does have a single vote when it
comes time to *choose a royal house*. Wise noble houses would do well to
stay in the good graces of the church, since they command huge amounts
of public and private opinion. The church also provides communities with
vital medical and disaster relief services. They generally preach peace
and forgiveness but when they *have reason* they have little trouble
finding a passage or two in *The Prayers* to excuse violent torture.

### The Draco-Cults

There is only one Draco-Cult that moves through the kingdom in broad
daylight, that is the cult of *Raz-Modian*. Every year, the agents of
the red dragon select a maiden from amongst the citizenry and bring her
back to Raz-Modian. This is done with full knowledge and protection of
the King. Many see it as a necessary evil and do their best not to draw
the attention of any Draco-Cultists. Unknown to most, there are members
of other Draco-Cults, in service to some of the other dragons.

### House Heron

One of the most powerful and largest noble houses in *The Kingdom*.
Known for their riches, the size of their territory and the size of
their family. The house boasts over a hundred lords and ladies.

### The Magi

The magi is a catch all term for the arcane casters of the kingdom. Magi
aren't a unified group even though they are often considered so by the
peoples of *The Kingdom*. Many Magi take on apprentices or sit on
councils but there isn't a singular rule or convention regarding their
ways.

### The Laplass Family

The Laplass family has been in control of the throne for almost a
century. Members of the Laplass family are simultaneously known for long
life and violent death. The eldest living member is *Count Putnam
Laplass* but *The Queen* herself is said to be not much younger.

## Myth and Minutiae

### Witchcraft

Magic of the wizarding sort is rare within *The Kingdom*. It is most
often found within the halls of on of the *Magi schools of magic*. Most
common folk find *polite* tricks of magic amusing and harmless but tend
do decide for themselves what is friendly magic and what is witchcraft.
*The Church* has no problem amplifying such suspicions of the dark
arts.

### Raz-Modian

The great old colossal red dragon that dominates the north eastern
*Druuthenholm Mountains*

### The Prayers

The holy book that is kept by all true followers of *Sol*. Copies are
created, blessed and sold by *The Church* and updated periodically by a
process called *Illumination*. It is forbidden by law in *The Kingdom*
to possess an un-illuminated copy of The Prayers and they are destroyed
whenever found.

### Illumination

A perfect original of *The Prayers* is kept in the *Jingwei Basilica*
Anything written into the original book there, is magically transfered
into all illuminated copies of the prayers.

### Gold Creep

Gold creep is a wheat-yellow fungus or lichen that spreads liberally in
some parts of *The Kingdom* usually in forests but there is a famous
patch just outside *Bondwafer*. It isn't clear what Gold Creep is but it
is somewhat edible and sweet, can be scraped into a powder and some say
it has healing powers.  Most consider it a blight on the land because of
how it covers everything and can choke out plants and passersby alike.
All pollen eating animals seem attracted to it and weeds flourish from
under it. *Goodly Grue*, is the foremost expert on Gold Creep
